[DependencyInjection] Doc for #30257 Allow to choose an index for tagged collection (#11009)
symfony/symfony-docs: service_container/tags.rst

                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

    Note that any other custom attributes will be ignored by this feature.

Tagged Services Collection with Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> What if you want to retrieve a specific service within the injected collection previously?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to retrieve a specific service within the injected collection
```

> The solution is to use the ``index_by`` and ``default_index_method`` options of the argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use the ``index_by`` and ``default_index_method`` options of the argument
```

Author: thanks

in combination with ``!tagged``.

In the following example, all services tagged with ``app.handler`` are passed as

> first constructor argument to the ``App\Handler\HandlerCollection`` service, like previously,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first constructor argument to ``App\Handler\HandlerCollection`,
```

> but we can now access to a specific injected service :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but we can now access a specific injected service:
```

            <services>
                <service id="App\Handler\One">
                    <tag name="app.handler" key="handler_one" />
                </service>

                <service id="App\Handler\Two">
                    <tag name="app.handler" key="handler_two" />
                </service>

                <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                    <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->
                    <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="key" />
                </service>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services.php
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Argument\TaggedIteratorArgument;

        $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
            ->addTag('app.handler', ['key' => 'handler_one']);

        $container->register(App\Handler\Two::class)
            ->addTag('app.handler', ['key' => 'handler_two']);

        $container->register(App\Handler\HandlerCollection::class)
            // inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
            ->addArgument(new TaggedIteratorArgument('app.handler', 'key'));

> After compilation the ``HandlerCollection`` service is able to iterate over your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After compilation the ``HandlerCollection`` is able to iterate over your
```

> application handlers. But we want to retrieve a specific service by it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application handlers. To retrieve a specific service by it's ``key`` attribute
```

> ``key`` attribute. As it's an iterator, we can use ``iterator_to_array``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the iterator, we can use ``iterator_to_array`` and retrieve the ``handler_two``:
```

to get an array and then retrieve the ``handler_two`` handler :

.. code-block:: php

    // src/Handler/HandlerCollection.php
    namespace App\Handler;

    class HandlerCollection
    {
        public function __construct(iterable $handlers)
        {
            $handlers = iterator_to_array($handlers);

>             $handler_two = $handlers['handler_two']:

Reviewer: $handlerTwo

>             $handler_one = $handlers['handler_one'];

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

handler one shouldn't be mentioned here, everything before is only talking about "handler_two"

    }

.. tip::

>     You can omit the ``index_attribute_name`` attribute, by implementing a static

Reviewer 2: What's this `index_attribute_name` ? It's the first time it's mentioned in the docs.

Reviewer: This one was introduced by the new code

Reviewer 2: This doc suggests that there is an option called `index_attribute_name`. I can't see it in the previous examples, where we only use `index_by` or `inex-by`. So, is this an error? Is there a missing example? Am I missing something? Thanks.

Author: @Hi @javiereguiluz , 
in fact the option is called ``index_by`` into the ``!tagged argument``. 
With a little example it would be better : 
```yaml
    foo_service:
        class: Foo
        tags:
            - { name: foo,  key: bar_foo}
    foo_service_tagged:
        class: Bar
        arguments: [!tagged { tag: foo, index_by: key  }]
```

What we explain in the documentation, is that we can, here, omit the attribute called ``key`` If we implement a method called ``getDefaultIndexName``

If in the ``index_by`` option I called it `sun` so the omit attribute would be `sun`.

Is that more clear ? 

The rest of the docs explains that with example.

If you find a more intuitive way to explains this, don't hesitate tu push to this PR ;)

Reviewer 3: I agree with Javier, the sentence should be `You can omit the ``key`` attribute...`, then directly show the usage of
```yaml
arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'app.handler', index_by: 'key', default_index_method: 'someFunctionName' }]
```
within the tip, and discard the following.

    You can omit the ``index_attribute_name`` attribute, by implementing a static

>     method named like this : ``getDefaultIndexAttributeNameName``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    method ``getDefaultIndexAttributeName`` to the handler.
```

NameName -> Name

>     Based on the previous example ``App\Handler\One`` should look like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Based on the previous example ``App\Handler\One`` should look like this:
```

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Handler/One.php
        namespace App\Handler;

        class One
        {

>             public static function getDefaultIndexName() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            public static function getDefaultIndexName()
            {
```

>             public static function getDefaultIndexName() {

Reviewer: what about a return type here?

                return 'handler_one';
            }
        }

>     And the configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    And the configuration:
```

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            services:
                App\Handler\One:
                    tags:
                        - { name: 'app.handler', priority: 20 }

>                 ....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                # ...
```

this ins invaid yaml otherwise

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <services>
                    <service id="App\Handler\One">
                        <tag name="app.handler" priority="20" />
                    </service>

>                     ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <!-- ... -->
```

                </services>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

>             ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // ...
```

    You also can define the name of the static method to implement on each service
    with the ``default_index_method`` attribute on the argument.

>     Based on the previous example ``App\Handler\One`` should look like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Based on the previous example ``App\Handler\One`` should look like this:
```

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Handler/One.php
        namespace App\Handler;

        class One
        {

>             public static function someFunctionName()

Reviewer: what about a return type `: string` here?

Author: yes

            {
                return 'handler_one';
            }
        }

>     And the configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    And the configuration:
```

@weaverryan not sure how we handle the colon in the symfony docs, with or without leading whitespace?

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            services:

>                 ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                # ...
```

                App\HandlerCollection:
                    # inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
                    arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'app.handler', index_by: 'key', default_index_method: 'someFunctionName' }]

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <services>

>                     ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    <!-- ... -->
```

                    <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                        <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->
                        <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="key" default-index-method="someFunctionName" />
                    </service>
                </services>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php

>             ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // ...
```

                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

    Note that any other custom attributes will be ignored by this feature.

Tagged Services Collection with Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What if you want to retrieve a specific service within the injected collection previously?
But you doesn't want to walk through the whole collection. The solution is to use the ``index_by``
and ``default_index_method`` options of the argument in combination with ``!tagged`` .

> In the following example, all services tagged with app.handler are passed as

Reviewer: app.handler should be highlighted

> first constructor argument to the App\HandlerCollection service, like previously,

Reviewer: App\HandlerCollection should be highlighted

but we can now access to a specific injected service :

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        services:
            App\Handler\One:
                tags:

>                     - { tag: 'app.handler', index_attribute_name : 'hOne' }

Reviewer: Isn’t it:

name: instead of tag: ?

                    <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index_attribute_name"/>
                </service>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services.php
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Argument\TaggedIteratorArgument;

        $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
            ->addTag('app.handler', ['index_attribute_name' => 'hOne']);

        $container->register(App\Handler\Two::class)
            ->addTag('app.handler', ['index_attribute_name' => 'hTwo']);

        $container->register(App\HandlerCollection::class)
            // inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
            ->addArgument(new TaggedIteratorArgument('app.handler', 'index_attribute_name'));

After compilation the ``HandlerCollection`` service is able to iterate over your
application handlers. But we want to retrieve a specific service by it's
``index_attribute_name``. As it's an iterator, we can use ``iterator_to_array``
to get an array and then retrieve the ``hTwo`` handler :

.. code-block:: php

    // src/HandlerCollection.php

>     namespace App;

Reviewer: Would use App\Handler as namespace and filepath as its common practice to only have the Kernel.php file in the src/ directory

Author: Yes indeed, it's just the same file than the rest of the documentation, I've forget to change that

    class HandlerCollection
    {

>         public function __construct(iterable $handlersIt)

Reviewer: Would rename it to „$handlers“ here

Also „hOne“ should be „handler_one“ as it’s a key and more speakable

        {
            $handlers = iterator_to_array($handlersIt);

            $hTwo = $handlers['hTwo']:
            $hOne = $handlers['hOne'];
        }
    }

.. tip::

>     You can omit the ``index_attribute_name`` attribute, to do this you

Reviewer: „You can omit... by implementing....“

sounds more natural to me

Author: yes thanks

    have, by default, to implement a static method named like this : ``getDefaultIndexAttributeNameName``

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            services:
                App\Handler\One:
                    tags:
                        - { name: 'app.handler', priority: 20 }

            App\Handler\Two:
                tags:

>                     - { tag: 'app.handler', index : 'hTwo' }

Reviewer: should be „name:“ I guess and please remove the space after Index before the colon

                    </service>

                    <service id="App\Handler\Two">
                        <tag name="app.handler" index="hTwo" />
                    </service>

                    <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                        <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->
                        <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index"/>
                    </service>
                </services>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class, ['index' => 'hTwo']);

            $container->register(App\HandlerCollection::class)
                // inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
                ->addArgument(new TaggedIteratorArgument('app.handler', 'index'));

    And here is how your ``App\Handler\One`` should now be :

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Handler/One.php
        namespace App\Handler;

        class One
        {

>             public static function getDefaultIndexName() {

Reviewer: Please move opening curly bracket to the next line

                <services>
                    <service id="App\Handler\One">
                        <tag name="app.handler" priority="20" />
                    </service>

                    <service id="App\Handler\Two">
                        <tag name="app.handler" index="hTwo" />
                    </service>

                    <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                        <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->
                        <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index" default-index-method="someFunctionName" />
                    </service>
                </services>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class, ['index' => 'hTwo']);

            $container->register(App\HandlerCollection::class)
                // inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
                ->addArgument(new TaggedIteratorArgument('app.handler', 'index', 'someFunctionName'));

>     And here is how your ``App\Handler\One`` should now be :

Reviewer: should Look like:

                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

    Note that any other custom attributes will be ignored by this feature.

Tagged Services Collection with Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What if you want to retrieve a specific service within the injected collection previously?

> But you doesn't want to walk through the whole collection. The solution is to use the ``index_by``

Reviewer 4: As it is now, the feature allows defining the key of the iterator: it doesn't allow accessing a specific key without walking the collection (`iteraror_to_array` *does* walk through the collection.)
We should wait for allowing indexed service locators as this should have a direct impact on the wording here.

Author: I''l remove `But you doesn't want to walk through the whole collection.`

> in combination with ``!tagged`` .

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
in combination with ``!tagged``.
```

Author: thanks

In the following example, all services tagged with ``app.handler`` are passed as
first constructor argument to the ``App\Handler\HandlerCollection`` service, like previously,
but we can now access to a specific injected service :

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        services:
            App\Handler\One:
                tags:

>                     - { name: 'app.handler', index_attribute_name : 'handler_one' }

Reviewer: Please remove space before colon

                tags:
                    - { name: 'app.handler', index_attribute_name: 'handler_two' }

            App\HandlerCollection:
                # inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
                arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'app.handler', index_by: 'index_attribute_name' }]

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="App\Handler\One">
                    <tag name="app.handler" index_attribute_name="handler_one" />
                </service>

                <service id="App\Handler\Two">
                    <tag name="app.handler" index_attribute_name="handler_two" />
                </service>

                <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                    <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->

>                     <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index_attribute_name"/>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
                    <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index_attribute_name" />
```

Not sure about this one, but on ahead tagged service an extra space was added before ending the tag.

>                     <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index_attribute_name" />

Reviewer 6: Let's use `index-by="index"` or `index-by="key"` - it just reads better I think

Author: yes indeed, thanks

After compilation the ``HandlerCollection`` service is able to iterate over your
application handlers. But we want to retrieve a specific service by it's
``index_attribute_name``. As it's an iterator, we can use ``iterator_to_array``
to get an array and then retrieve the ``handler_two`` handler :

.. code-block:: php

    // src/Handler/HandlerCollection.php
    namespace App\Handler;

    class HandlerCollection
    {
        public function __construct(iterable $handlers)
        {
            $handlers = iterator_to_array($handlers);

            $handler_two = $handlers['handler_two']:
            $handler_one = $handlers['handler_one'];
        }
    }

.. tip::

    You can omit the ``index_attribute_name`` attribute, by implementing a static
    method named like this : ``getDefaultIndexAttributeNameName``

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            services:
                App\Handler\One:
                    tags:
                        - { name: 'app.handler', priority: 20 }

                App\Handler\Two:
                    tags:

>                         - { name: 'app.handler', index : 'handler_two' }

Reviewer: Please remove space before colon

                App\HandlerCollection:
                    # inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument

>                     arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'app.handler', index_by: 'index' }]

Reviewer 6: To make this shorter, we can "continue" the example from above. Basically, just show the `App\Handler\One` service. then a `...` to indicate that Two and HandlerCollection are the same.

Author: ok thanks

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <services>
                    <service id="App\Handler\One">
                        <tag name="app.handler" priority="20" />
                    </service>

                    <service id="App\Handler\Two">
                        <tag name="app.handler" index="handler_two" />
                    </service>

                    <service id="App\HandlerCollection">
                        <!-- inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument -->

>                         <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index"/>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
                        <argument type="tagged" tag="app.handler" index-by="index" />
```

Same here

                    </service>
                </services>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class)
                ->addTag('app.handler', ['priority' => 20]);

            $container->register(App\Handler\One::class, ['index' => 'handler_two']);

            $container->register(App\HandlerCollection::class)
                // inject all services tagged with app.handler as first argument
                ->addArgument(new TaggedIteratorArgument('app.handler', 'index'));

>     And here is how your ``App\Handler\One`` should now be :

Reviewer 6: It might be more clear if you show this FIRST, and THEN the changes to `services.yaml` thanks to this (being able to omit the index key)

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Handler/One.php
        namespace App\Handler;

        class One
        {
            public static function getDefaultIndexName() {
                return 'handler_one';
            }
        }

>     You also can define the name of the static method to implement on each service with the ``default_index_method`` attribute on the argument.

Reviewer 6: Same down here: show the PHP code first, then the changes in YAML (and only show the code that actually needs to be changed.

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            services:
                App\Handler\One:
                    tags:
                        - { name: 'app.handler', priority: 20 }

                App\Handler\Two:
                    tags:

>                         - { name: 'app.handler', index : 'handler_two' }

Reviewer: Please remove space before colon
